Pesquisa Realizada em: 06/11/2021 09:48:21  Descrição da imagem: On June 10 a New Moon passed in front of the Sun. In silhouette only two days after reaching apogee, the most distant point in its elliptical orbit, the Moon's small apparent size helped create an annular solar eclipse. The brief but spectacular annular phase of the eclipse shows a bright solar disk as a ring of fire when viewed along its narrow, northerly shadow track across planet Earth. Cloudy early morning skies along the US east coast held gorgeous views of a partially eclipsed Sun though. Rising together Moon and Sun are captured in a sequence of consecutive frames near maximum eclipse in this digital composite, seen from Quincy Beach south of Boston, Massachusetts. The serendipitous sequence follows the undulating path of a bird in flight joining the Moon in silhouette with the rising Sun.
Pesquisa Realizada em: 06/14/2021 09:39:47  Descrição da imagem: What does the largest moon in the Solar System look like?  Jupiter's moon Ganymede, larger than even Mercury and Pluto, has an icy surface speckled with bright young craters overlying a mixture of older, darker, more cratered terrain laced with grooves and ridges.  The cause of the grooved terrain remains a topic of research, with a leading hypothesis relating it to shifting ice plates.  Ganymede is thought to have an ocean layer that contains more water than Earth -- and might contain life.  Like Earth's Moon, Ganymede keeps the same face towards its central planet, in this case Jupiter.  The featured image was captured last week by NASA's robotic Juno spacecraft as it passed only about 1000 kilometers above the immense moon.  The close pass reduced Juno's orbital period around Jupiter from 53 days to 43 days.  Juno continues to study the giant planet's high gravity, unusual magnetic field, and complex cloud structures.    Last week's solar eclipse: Notable images submitted to APOD
Pesquisa Realizada em: 06/15/2021 09:09:05  Descrição da imagem: There's a new rover on Mars. In mid-May, China's Tianwen-1 mission delivered the Zhurong rover onto the red planet.  As Mars means Planet of Fire in Chinese, the Zhurong rover's name means, roughly, God of Fire in Chinese mythology.  Zhurong landed in northern Utopia Planitia, the largest known impact basin in the Solar System, and an area reported to have much underground ice. Among many other scientific instruments, Zhurong carries ground-penetrating radar that can detect ice buried even 100-meters deep. Car-sized Zhurong is pictured here next to its landing base.  The image was snapped by a remote camera deployed by the rolling rover. Zhurong's planned 90-day mission includes studying the geology, soil, and atmosphere of Mars in Utopia Planitia.
Pesquisa Realizada em: 06/16/2021 09:00:16  Descrição da imagem: If Scorpius looked this good to the unaided eye, humans might remember it better.  Scorpius more typically appears as a few bright stars in a well-known but rarely pointed out zodiacal constellation. To get a spectacular image like this, though, one needs a good camera, a dark sky, and some sophisticated image processing.  The resulting digitally-enhanced image shows many breathtaking features.  Diagonal across the image right is part of the plane of our Milky Way Galaxy.   Visible there are vast clouds of bright stars and long filaments of dark and intricate dust.  Rising vertically on the image left are dark dust bands known as the Dark River.  Several of the bright stars on the left are part of Scorpius' head and claws, and include the bright star Antares.  Numerous red emission nebulas, blue reflection nebulas, and dark filaments became visible as the deep 17-hour expo image developed. Scorpius appears prominently in southern skies after sunset during the middle of the year.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 06/18/2021 16:01:01
Titulo da Imagem: Devil Horns from a Ring of Fire
Descrição da imagem: Atmospheric refraction flattened the solar disk and distorted its appearance in this telescopic view of an Atlantic sunrise on June 10. From Belmar, New Jersey on the US east coast, the scene was recorded at New Moon during this season's annular solar eclipse. The Moon in partial silhouette gives the rising Sun its crescent shape reminding some of the horns of the devil (or maybe a flying canoe ...). But at its full annular phase this eclipsed Sun looked like a ring of fire in the heavens. June's annular solar eclipse followed on the heels of the total lunar eclipse of late May's Full Moon. Of course, that total lunar eclipse was a dramatic red Blood Moon eclipse.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 06/21/2021 13:23:51
Titulo da Imagem: The Tadpole Galaxy from Hubble
Descrição da imagem: Why does this galaxy have such a long tail?  In this stunning vista, based on image data from the Hubble Legacy Archive, distant galaxies form a dramatic backdrop for disrupted spiral galaxy Arp 188, the Tadpole Galaxy. The cosmic tadpole is a mere 420 million light-years distant toward the northern constellation of the Dragon (Draco). Its eye-catching tail is about 280 thousand light-years long and features massive, bright blue star clusters. One story goes that a more compact intruder galaxy crossed in front of Arp 188 - from right to left in this view - and was slung around behind the Tadpole by their gravitational attraction. During the close encounter, tidal forces drew out the spiral galaxy's stars, gas, and dust forming the spectacular tail. The intruder galaxy itself, estimated to lie about 300 thousand light-years behind the Tadpole, can be seen through foreground spiral arms at the upper right. Following its terrestrial namesake, the Tadpole Galaxy will likely lose its tail as it grows older, the tail's star clusters forming smaller satellites of the large spiral galaxy.   APOD in world languages: Arabic, Bulgarian, Catalan, Chinese (Beijing), Chinese (Taiwan), Croatian, Czech, Dutch, Farsi, French, German, Hebrew, Indonesian, Japanese, Korean, Montenegrin, Polish, Russian, Serbian, Slovenian,  Spanish, Taiwanese, Turkish, Turkish, and  Ukrainian

Pesquisa Realizada em: 06/22/2021 12:24:11
Titulo da Imagem: HD 163296: Jet from a Star in Formation
Descrição da imagem: How are jets created during star formation? No one is sure, although recent images of the young star system HD 163296 are quite illuminating. The central star in the featured image is still forming but seen already surrounded by a rotating disk and an outward moving jet. The disk is shown in radio waves taken by the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA) in Chile, and show gaps likely created by the gravity of very-young planets.  The jet, shown in visible light taken by the Very Large Telescope (VLT, also in Chile), expels fast-moving gas -- mostly hydrogen -- from the disk center.  The system spans hundreds of times the Earth-Sun distance (au).  Details of these new observations are being interpreted to  bolster conjectures that the jets are generated and shaped, at least in part, by magnetic fields in the rotating disk. Future observations of HD 163296 and other similar star-forming systems may help fill in details.    Astrophysicists: Browse 2,500+ codes in the Astrophysics Source Code Library

Pesquisa Realizada em: 06/23/2021 10:08:11
Titulo da Imagem: STARFORGE: A Star Formation Simulation
Descrição da imagem: How do stars form?  Most form in giant molecular clouds located in the central disk of a galaxy.  The process is started, influenced, and limited by the stellar winds, jets, high energy starlight, and supernova explosions of previously existing stars. The featured video shows these complex interactions as computed by the STARFORGE simulation of a gas cloud 20,000 times the mass of our Sun. In the time-lapse visualization, lighter regions indicate denser gas, color encodes the gas speed (purple is slow, orange is fast), while dots indicate the positions of newly formed stars. As the video begins, a gas cloud spanning about 50 light years begins to condense under its own gravity.  Within 2 million years, the first stars form, while newly formed massive stars are seen to expel impressive jets. The simulation is frozen after 4.3 million years, and the volume then rotated to gain a three-dimensional perspective. Much remains unknown about star formation, including the effect of the jets in limiting the masses of subsequently formed stars.    Portal Universe: Random APOD Generator

Pesquisa Realizada em: 06/24/2021 09:10:13
Titulo da Imagem: Messier 99
Descrição da imagem: Grand design spiral galaxy Messier 99 looks majestic on a truly cosmic scale. This recently processed full galaxy portrait stretches over 70,000 light-years across M99. The sharp view is a combination of ultraviolet, visible, and infrared image data from the Hubble Space Telescope. About 50 million light-years distant toward the well-groomed constellation Coma Bernices, the face-on spiral is a member of the nearby Virgo Galaxy Cluster. Also cataloged as NGC 4254, a close encounter with another Virgo cluster member has likely influenced the shape of its well-defined, blue spiral arms.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 06/25/2021 10:30:51
Titulo da Imagem: Andromeda in a Single Shot
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/2106/AndromedaGalaxy-SingleShotMina-4688-net1200.jpg
Descrição da imagem: How far can you see? The Andromeda Galaxy, 2.5 million light years away, is the most distant object easily seen by the unaided eye. Other denizens of the night sky, like stars, clusters, and nebulae, are typically hundreds to thousands of light-years distant. That's far beyond the Solar System but well within our own Milky Way Galaxy. Also known as M31, the external galaxy poses directly above a chimney in this well-planned deep night skyscape from an old mine in southern Portugal. The image was captured in a single exposure tracking the sky, so the foreground is slightly blurred by the camera's motion while Andromeda itself looms large. The galaxy's brighter central region, normally all that's visible to the naked-eye, can be seen extending to spiral arms with fainter outer reaches spanning over 4 full moons across the sky. Of course in only 5 billion years or so, the stars of Andromeda could span the entire night sky as the Andromeda Galaxy merges with the Milky Way.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 06/28/2021 09:19:44
Titulo da Imagem: A Paper Moon Solar Eclipse
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/2106/PaperMoonSolarEclipse_Letian_960.jpg
Descrição da imagem: It may look like a paper Moon.  Sailing past a  canvas Sun.  But those are not cardboard clouds.  And it's not make believe.  The featured picture of an orange colored sky is real -- a digital composite of two exposures of the solar eclipse that occurred earlier this month.  The first exposure was taken with a regular telescope that captured an overexposed Sun and an underexposed Moon, while the second image was taken with a solar telescope that captured details of the chromosphere of the background Sun. The Sun's canvas-like texture was brought up by imaging in a very specific shade of red emitted by hydrogen.  Several prominences can be seen around the Sun's edge.  The image was captured just before sunset from Xilingol, Inner Mongolia, China. It's also not make-believe to imagine that the Moon is made of dense rock, the Sun is made of hot gas, and clouds are made of floating droplets of water and ice.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 06/29/2021 12:54:26
Titulo da Imagem: Orion Nebula: The Hubble View
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/2106/OrionNebula_HubbleSerrano_960.jpg
Descrição da imagem: Few cosmic vistas excite the imagination like the Orion Nebula. Also known as M42, the nebula's glowing gas surrounds hot young stars at the edge of an immense interstellar molecular cloud only 1,500 light-years away. The Orion Nebula offers one of the best opportunities to study how stars are born partly because it is the nearest large star-forming region, but also because the nebula's energetic stars have blown away obscuring gas and dust clouds that would otherwise block our view - providing an intimate look at a range of ongoing stages of starbirth and evolution. The featured image of the Orion Nebula is among the sharpest ever, constructed using data from the Hubble Space Telescope.  The entire Orion Nebula spans about 40 light years and is located in the same spiral arm of our Galaxy as the Sun.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 06/30/2021 15:32:01
Titulo da Imagem: Simulation: Formation of the First Stars
Link para Acesso: https://www.youtube.com/embed/q9ZCBR-onRw?rel=0
Descrição da imagem: How did the first stars form? To help find out, the SPHINX computer simulation of star formation in the very early universe was created, some results of which are shown in the featured video. Time since the Big Bang is shown in millions of years on the upper left.  Even 100 million years after the Big Bang, matter was spread too uniformly across the cosmos for stars to be born.  Besides background radiation, the universe was dark. Soon, slight matter clumps rich in hydrogen gas begin to coalesce into the first stars. In the time-lapse video, purple denotes gas, white denotes light, and gold shows radiation so energetic that it ionizes hydrogen, breaking it up into charged electrons and protons.  The gold-colored regions also track the most massive stars that die with powerful supernovas. The inset circle highlights a central region that is becoming a galaxy.  The simulation continues until the universe was about 550 million years old.  To assess the accuracy of the SPHINX simulations and the assumptions that went into them, the results are not only being compared to current deep observations, but will also be compared with more direct observations of the early universe planned with NASA's pending James Webb Space Telescope.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 07/01/2021 12:03:11
Titulo da Imagem: Perseverance Selfie with Ingenuity
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/2107/PIA24542_fig2_1100c.jpg
Descrição da imagem: On sol 46 (April 6, 2021) the Perseverance rover held out a robotic arm to take its first selfie on Mars. The WATSON camera at the end of the arm was designed to take close-ups of martian rocks and surface details though, and not a quick snap shot of friends and smiling faces. In the end, teamwork and weeks of planning on Mars time was required to program a complex series of exposures and camera motions to include Perseverance and its surroundings. The resulting 62 frames were composed into a detailed mosiac, one of the most complicated Mars rover selfies ever taken. In this version of the selfie, the rover's Mastcam-Z and SuperCam instruments are looking toward WATSON and the end of the rover's outstretched arm. About 4 meters (13 feet) from Perseverance is a robotic companion, the Mars Ingenuity helicopter.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 07/02/2021 09:18:24
Titulo da Imagem: AR2835: Islands in the Photosphere
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/2107/AR2835_20210701_W2x1024.jpg
Descrição da imagem: Awash in a sea of incandescent plasma and anchored in strong magnetic fields, sunspots are planet-sized dark islands in the solar photosphere, the bright surface of the Sun. Found in solar active regions, sunspots look dark only because they are slightly cooler though, with temperatures of about 4,000 kelvins compared to 6,000 kelvins for the surrounding solar surface. These sunspots lie in active region AR2835. The largest active region now crossing the Sun, AR2835 is captured in this sharp telescopic close-up from July 1 in a field of view that spans about 150,000 kilometers or over ten Earth diameters. With powerful magnetic fields, solar active regions are often responsible for solar flares and coronal mass ejections, storms which affect space weather near planet Earth.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 07/06/2021 09:44:50
Titulo da Imagem: Saturn and Six Moons
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/2107/SaturnAndMoons_Ranjbaran_960.jpg
Descrição da imagem: How many moons does Saturn have? So far 82 have been confirmed, the smallest being only a fraction of a kilometer across. Six of its largest satellites can be seen here in a composite image with 13 short exposure of the bright planet, and 13 long exposures of the brightest of its faint moons, taken over two weeks last month.  Larger than Earth's Moon and even slightly larger than Mercury,Saturn's largest moon Titan has a diameter of 5,150 kilometers and was captured making nearly a complete orbit around its ringed parent planet.  Saturn's first known natural satellite, Titan was discovered in 1655 by Dutch astronomer Christiaan Huygens, in contrast with several newly discovered moons announced in 2019.  The trail on the far right belongs to Iapetus, Saturn's third largest moon. The radius of painted Iapetus' orbit is so large that only a portion of it was captured here. Saturn leads Jupiter across the night sky this month, rising soon after sunset toward the southeast, and remaining visible until dawn.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 07/07/2021 09:20:44
Titulo da Imagem: Flight Through the Orion Nebula in Infrared Light
Link para Acesso: https://www.youtube.com/embed/ix1lzur2QLQ?rel=0
Descrição da imagem: What would it look like to fly into the Orion Nebula?  The exciting dynamic visualization of the Orion Nebula is based on real astronomical data and adept movie rendering techniques. Up close and personal with a famous stellar nursery normally seen from 1,500 light-years away, the digitally modeled representation based is based on infrared data from the Spitzer Space Telescope. The perspective moves along a valley over a light-year wide, in the wall of the region's giant molecular cloud. Orion's valley ends in a cavity carved by the energetic winds and radiation of the massive central stars of the Trapezium star cluster. The entire Orion Nebula spans about 40 light years and is located in the same spiral arm of our Galaxy as the Sun.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 07/08/2021 15:00:42
Titulo da Imagem: Perihelion to Aphelion
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/2107/PeriAph2021_Jaworski1024.jpg
Descrição da imagem: Aphelion for 2021 occurred on July 5th. That's the point in Earth's elliptical orbit when it is farthest from the Sun. Of course, the distance from the Sun doesn't determine the seasons. Those are governed by the tilt of Earth's axis of rotation, so July is still summer in the north and winter in the southern hemisphere. But it does mean that on July 5 the Sun was at its smallest apparent size when viewed from planet Earth. This composite neatly compares two pictures of the Sun, both taken with the same telescope and camera. The left half was captured close to the date of the 2021 perihelion (January 2), the closest point in Earth's orbit. The right was recorded just before the aphelion in 2021. Otherwise difficult to notice, the change in the Sun's apparent diameter between perihelion and aphelion amounts to a little over 3 percent.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 07/12/2021 17:00:11
Titulo da Imagem: M27: The Dumbbell Nebula
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/2107/M27_Falls_960.jpg
Descrição da imagem: What will become of our Sun? The first hint of our Sun's future was discovered inadvertently in 1764. At that time, Charles Messier was compiling a list of diffuse objects not to be confused with comets. The 27th object on Messier's list, now known as M27 or the Dumbbell Nebula, is a planetary nebula, one of the brightest planetary nebulae on the sky -- and visible toward the constellation of the Fox (Vulpecula) with binoculars. It takes light about 1000 years to reach us from M27, featured here in colors emitted by hydrogen and oxygen. We now know that in about 6 billion years, our Sun will shed its outer gases into a planetary nebula like M27, while its remaining center will become an X-ray hot white dwarf star.  Understanding the physics and significance of M27 was well beyond 18th century science, though. Even today, many things remain mysterious about planetary nebulas, including how their intricate shapes are created.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 07/13/2021 15:38:24
Titulo da Imagem: Saturn's Iapetus: Painted Moon in 3D
Link para Acesso: https://solarsystem.nasa.gov/gltf_embed/2381
Descrição da imagem: What has happened to Saturn's moon Iapetus?  Vast sections of this strange world are dark brown,  while others are as bright white.  The composition of the dark material is unknown, but infrared spectra indicate that it possibly contains some dark form of carbon. Iapetus also has an unusual equatorial ridge that makes it appear like a walnut.  To help better understand this seemingly painted moon, NASA directed the robotic Cassini spacecraft orbiting Saturn to swoop within 2,000 kilometers in 2007. Iapetus is pictured here in 3D.  A huge impact crater seen in the south spans a tremendous 450 kilometers and appears superposed on an older crater of similar size. The dark material is seen increasingly coating the easternmost part of Iapetus, darkening craters and highlands alike.  Close inspection indicates that the dark coating typically faces the moon's equator and is less than a meter thick. A leading hypothesis is that the dark material is mostly dirt leftover when relatively warm but dirty ice sublimates. An initial coating of dark material may have been effectively painted on by the accretion of meteor-liberated debris from other moons.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 07/14/2021 12:11:37
Titulo da Imagem: GW200115: Simulation of a Black Hole Merging with a Neutron Star
Link para Acesso: https://www.youtube.com/embed/V_Kd4YBNs7c?rel=0
Descrição da imagem: What happens when a black hole destroys a neutron star? Analyses indicate that just such an event created gravitational wave event GW200115, detected in 2020 January by LIGO and Virgo observatories. To better understand the unusual event, the featured visualization was created from a computer simulation. The visualization video starts with the black hole (about 6 times the Sun's mass) and neutron star (about 1.5 times the Sun's mass) circling each other, together emitting an increasing amount of gravitational radiation. The picturesque pattern of gravitational wave emission is shown in blue. The duo spiral together increasingly fast until the neutron star becomes completely absorbed by the black hole.  Since the neutron star did not break apart during the collision, little light escaped -- which matches the lack of an observed optical counterpart. The remaining black hole rings briefly, and as that dies down so do the emitted gravitational waves.  The 30-second time-lapse video may seem short, but it actually lasts about 1000 times longer than the real merger event.    Astrophysicists: Browse 2,500+ codes in the Astrophysics Source Code Library

Pesquisa Realizada em: 07/20/2021 08:34:32
Titulo da Imagem: Thor's Helmet
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/2107/ThorsHelmet_Miller_960.jpg
Descrição da imagem: Thor not only has his own day (Thursday), but a helmet in the heavens.  Popularly called Thor's Helmet, NGC 2359 is a hat-shaped cosmic cloud with wing-like appendages. Heroically sized even for a Norse god, Thor's Helmet is about 30 light-years across. In fact, the cosmic head-covering is more like an interstellar bubble, blown with a fast wind from the bright, massive star near the bubble's center. Known as a Wolf-Rayet star, the central star is an extremely hot giant thought to be in a brief, pre-supernova stage of evolution. NGC 2359 is located about 15,000 light-years away toward the constellation of the Great Overdog. This remarkably sharp image is a mixed cocktail of data from broadband and narrowband filters, capturing not only natural looking stars but details of the nebula's filamentary structures. The star in the center of Thor's Helmet is expected to explode in a spectacular supernova sometime within the next few thousand years.    Almost Hyperspace: Random APOD Generator

Pesquisa Realizada em: 07/21/2021 14:25:36
Titulo da Imagem: Colors: Ring Nebula versus Stars
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/2107/RingColorsOH_Vanderbei_1080.jpg
Descrição da imagem: What if you could see, separately, all the colors of the Ring? And of the surrounding stars? There's technology for that. The featured image shows the Ring Nebula (M57) and nearby stars through such technology: in this case, a prism-like diffraction grating.  The Ring Nebula is seen only a few times because it emits light, primarily, in only a few colors. The two brightest emitted colors are hydrogen (red) and oxygen (blue), appearing as nearly overlapping images to the left of the image center.  The image just to the right of center is the color-combined icon normally seen.  Stars, on the other hand, emit most of their light in colors all across the visible spectrum.  These colors, combined, make a nearly continuous streak -- which is why stars appear accompanied by multicolored bars.  Breaking object light up into colors is scientifically useful because it can reveal the elements that compose that object, how fast that object is moving, and how distant that object is.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 07/26/2021 10:11:02
Titulo da Imagem: CG4: A Ruptured Cometary Globule
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/2107/CG4_Rolland_1080.jpg
Descrição da imagem: Can a gas cloud grab a galaxy?  It's not even close.  The "claw" of this odd looking "creature" in the featured photo is a gas cloud known as a cometary globule.  This globule, however, has ruptured.  Cometary globules are typically characterized by dusty heads and elongated tails.  These features cause cometary globules to have visual similarities to comets, but in reality they are very much different.  Globules are frequently the birthplaces of stars, and many show very young stars in their heads. The reason for the rupture in the head of this object is not yet known. The galaxy to the left of the globule is huge, very far in the distance, and only placed near CG4 by chance superposition.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 07/27/2021 09:20:56
Titulo da Imagem: Fleming's Triangular Wisp
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/2107/FlemingsTriangle_Saab_960.jpg
Descrição da imagem: Chaotic in appearance, these tangled filaments of shocked, glowing gas are spread across planet Earth's sky toward the constellation of Cygnus as part of the Veil Nebula. The Veil Nebula itself is a large supernova remnant, an expanding cloud born of the death explosion of a massive star. Light from the original supernova explosion likely reached Earth over 5,000 years ago. The glowing filaments are really more like long ripples in a sheet seen almost edge on, remarkably well separated into the glow of ionized hydrogen atoms shown in blue and oxygen in red hues. Also known as the Cygnus Loop and cataloged as NGC 6979, the Veil Nebula now spans about 6 times the diameter of the full Moon. The length of the wisp corresponds to about 30 light years, given its estimated distance of 2,400 light years.  Often identified as Pickering's Triangle for a director of Harvard College Observatory, it is also named for its discoverer, astronomer Williamina Fleming, as Fleming's Triangular Wisp.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 07/28/2021 12:17:21
Titulo da Imagem: Ring Galaxy AM 0644-741
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/2107/AM0644-741Full1024.jpg
Descrição da imagem: 

Pesquisa Realizada em: 07/30/2021 10:28:29
Titulo da Imagem: Mimas in Saturnlight
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/1908/MimasPIA17213_fig1_1024.jpg
Descrição da imagem: Peering from the shadows, the Saturn-facing hemisphere of Mimas lies in near darkness alongside a dramatic sunlit crescent. The mosaic was captured near the Cassini spacecraft's final close approach on January 30, 2017. Cassini's camera was pointed in a nearly sunward direction only 45,000 kilometers from Mimas. The result is one of the highest resolution views of the icy, crater-pocked, 400 kilometer diameter moon. An enhanced version better reveals the Saturn-facing hemisphere of the synchronously rotating moon lit by sunlight reflected from Saturn itself. To see it, slide your cursor over the image (or follow this link). Other Cassini images of Mimas include the small moon's large and ominous Herschel Crater.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 08/10/2021 08:53:13
Titulo da Imagem: Fire in Space
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/2108/SpaceFlame_nasa_960.jpg
Descrição da imagem: What does fire look like in space? In the gravity on Earth, heated air rises and expands, causing flames to be teardrop shaped. In the microgravity of the air-filled International Space Station (ISS), however, flames are spheres. Fire is the rapid acquisition of oxygen, and space flames meet new oxygen molecules when they float by randomly from all directions -- creating the enveloping sphere.  In the featured image taken in the ISS's Combustion Integration Rack, a spherical flame envelopes clusters of hot glowing soot.  Without oxygen, say in the vacuum of empty space, a fire would go out immediately.  The many chemical reactions involved with fire are complex, and testing them in microgravity is helping humanity not only to better understand fire -- but how to put out fire, too.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 08/27/2021 08:46:56
Titulo da Imagem: Elephant's Trunk and Caravan
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/2108/ElephantTrunkCaravan1024.jpg
Descrição da imagem: Like an illustration in a galactic Just So Story, the Elephant's Trunk Nebula winds through the emission nebula and young star cluster complex IC 1396, in the high and far off constellation of Cepheus. Also known as vdB 142, seen on the left the cosmic elephant's trunk is over 20 light-years long. Removed by digital processing, no visible stars are in this detailed telescopic close-up view highlighting the bright swept-back ridges that outline pockets of cool interstellar dust and gas. But the dark, tendril-shaped clouds contain the raw material for star formation and hide protostars within. Nearly 3,000 light-years distant, the relatively faint IC 1396 comple

Pesquisa Realizada em: 09/01/2021 10:22:36
Titulo da Imagem: Dancing Ghosts: Curved Jets from Active Galaxies
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/2109/DancingGhosts_EnglishNorris_960.jpg
Descrição da imagem: Why would galaxies emit jets that look like ghosts?  And furthermore, why do they appear to be dancing?  The curled and fluffy jets from the supermassive black holes at the centers of two host galaxies (top center and lower left) are unlike anything seen before.  They were found by astronomers using the Australian Square Kilometer Array Pathfinder (ASKAP) radio telescope when creating maps tracing the evolution of galaxies.  Images preceding this Evolutionary Map of the Universe survey only showed amorphous blobs.  Eventually, comparisons of relative amounts of energy emitted revealed the glowing elongated structures were created by electrons streaming around magnetic field lines

Pesquisa Realizada em: 09/15/2021 10:09:51
Titulo da Imagem: Cyclone Paths on Planet Earth
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/2109/StormPaths_NHC_1080.jpg
Descrição da imagem: Where on Earth do cyclones go? Known as hurricanes when in the Atlantic Ocean and typhoons when in the Pacific, the featured map shows the path of all major storms from 1985 through 2005.  The map shows graphically that cyclones usually occur over water, which makes sense since evaporating warm water gives them energy. The map also shows that cyclones never cross -- and rarely approach -- the Earth's equator, since the Coriolis effect goes to zero there, and cyclones need the Coriolis force to circulate. The Coriolis force also causes cyclone paths to arc away from the equator. Although long-term trends remain a topic of research, evidence indicates that hurricanes have become, on the average, more powerful in the North Atlantic over the past 30 years, and their power is projected to keep increasing.   Follow APOD on Instagram in: English, Farsi, Indonesian, Persian, or Portuguese

Pesquisa Realizada em: 09/17/2021 09:42:37
Titulo da Imagem: Video: Flash on Jupiter
Link para Acesso: https://www.youtube.com/embed/ImVl_TfTFEY?rel=0
Descrição da imagem: There has been a flash on Jupiter. A few days ago, several groups monitoring our Solar System's largest planet noticed a two-second long burst of light. Such flashes have been seen before, with the most famous being a series of impactor strikes in 1994. Then, fragments of Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 struck  Jupiter leaving dark patches that lasted for months. Since then, at least seven impacts have been recorded on Jupiter -- usually discovered by amateur astronomers. In the featured video, variations in the Earth's atmosphere cause Jupiter's image to shimmer when, suddenly, a bright flash appears just left of center.  Io and its shadow are visible on the right. What hit Jupiter will likely never be known, but considering what we do know of the nearby Solar System, it was likely a piece of rocky and ice -- perhaps the size of a bus -- that broke off long-ago from a passing comet or asteroid.

Pesquisa Realizada em: 10/06/2021 16:32:45
Titulo da Imagem: M43: Streams of Orion
Link para Acesso: https://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/2110/OrionStreams_Saukkonen_960.jpg
Descrição da imagem: Where do the dark streams of dust in the Orion Nebula originate? This part of the Orion Molecular Cloud Complex, M43, is the often imaged but rarely mentioned neighbor of the more famous M42. M42, seen in part to the upper right, includes many bright stars from the Trapezium star cluster. M43 is itself a star forming region that displays intricately-laced streams of dark dust -- although it is really composed mostly of glowing hydrogen gas. The entire Orion field is located about 1600 light years away.  Opaque to visible light, the picturesque dark dust is created in the outer atmosphere of massive cool stars and expelled by strong outer winds of protons and electrons.